GIT and GITHUB-

GIT:
1- It is a version control system, to track the changes in the code or to track the history of the code means the diffrent diffrent upgradations that we make in our code.
   it helps is going back to any point in the code.
2-It hepls in collaboration between deiffrent people making their own projects or parts of project on their respective system.
3-It is a software/tool/method/process.

GITHUB:
1- it is a website that allows developers to showcase or store their codes using git calleds as REPOS/REPOSITORIES.
   And it is basically an open source.
   and we upload the code in the form of folders.


-README file- this file basically contains the brief or the detailed explanation of our code or project and functionality when we intsialise in our project
 ITS good to make a readme file.

-CHANGES is called commit in github.
and the first change in project is called intial commit.

-TO MAKE CHNANGES IN THE README file html is written inside that. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 --- TO USE GIT we should have VS code and git bash installed in the system.
Tilde sign means the root directory or parent directory
  
--Configuring git:

git config --global.username "My Name" 
git config --global user.email "abc@email.com" 
git config --list

COMMANDS IN GIT-
1-clone and status:

-to copy any github REPO (remote) to our local pc or laptop:
 git clone "link"

2- "ls -a" this command is used to see all the files or the hidden files in which "git" is used
and all folders will have git file.

3-"git status" to check the status of the code

4- to add all files - git add file name
5-commit- it is the record of change 
git commit -m "some message"

6-push command- upload local repo content to remote repo means github
   git push origin main 
out of all the repos of the github the one that is the main repo where we have everything there we want to push this local repo of our system...
  
7-init command

init- used to create a new git repository

a- git init-to intialsie a git 
b-git remote add origin





